GCP load balancing and BigQuery app updates - metrics collection and dashboards (#5158)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/google/bigquery.md

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/bigquery.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

> The Google BigQuery App helps you monitor data and activity in your BigQuery data warehouse. The preconfigured dashboards provide insight into the projects, operations, queries, job performance, user management operations, user activities, storage, slots and billed GBs in BigQuery using audit logs and metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Google BigQuery App helps you monitor the data and activities in your BigQuery data warehouse. With audit logs and analytics, the preconfigured dashboards offer insight into BigQuery's projects, operations, queries, job performance, user management operations, user activities, storage, slots, and billed gigabytes.
```

> ## Log and Metric types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log and metric types
```

| transpose row _timeslice column project
```

### Sample metric queries
```bash title="In Flight Queries Trend"
cloud.provider=gcp project_id=* location=* metric=query/count statistic=average 
| quantize using sum
| sum by project_id , location
```

## Collect logs for Google BigQuery

This section describes the Sumo pipeline for ingesting logs from Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services, and provides instructions for configuring log collection for the Google BigQuery App.

### Collection Process for GCP Services

The key components in the collection process for GCP services are Google Logs Export, Google Cloud Pub/Sub, and Sumo’s Google Cloud Platform (GCP) source running on a hosted collector.

> The GCP service generates logs which are exported and published to a Google Pub/Sub topic through Google Cloud Logging [Log Router](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/routing/overview). You will then set up a Sumo Logic Google Cloud Platform source that subscribes to this topic and receives the exported log data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GCP service generates logs that are exported and published to a Google Pub/Sub topic via the Google Cloud Logging [Log Router](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/routing/overview). You will then set up a Sumo Logic Google Cloud Platform source to subscribe to this topic and receive the exported log data.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/GCP_Collection_Overview.png')} alt="Google integrations" />

### Configuring collection for GCP

> Configuring collection for GCP uses the following process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to configure the collection for GCP:
```

1. Configure a GCP source on a hosted collector. You'll obtain the **HTTP URL for the source**.
2. Create a topic in Google Pub/Sub and subscribe the GCP source URL to that topic.
3. Create an export of GCP logs from Google Log Router Logging. Exporting involves writing a filter that selects the log entries you want to export, and choosing a Pub/Sub as the destination. The filter and destination are held in an object called a sink.

> See the following sections for configuration instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the following sections for configuration instructions.
```

   4. In **Choose logs to include in sink** section for resource_type, replace "`<resource_variable>`" with "`bigquery_resource`".<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/resourcevar.png')} alt="Google integrations" width="400" />
   5. Click **Create Sync**.

:::note
By default, GCP logs are stored within Cloud Logging, but you can configure Log Router to exclude them as detailed [here](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/exclusions#overview) without affecting the export to Sumo Logic as outlined above.
:::

> ## Collecting Metric for the Google Cloud Load Balancer app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Collecting metrics for the Google Cloud Load Balancer app
```

> For metric collection in Sumo Logic use [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For metrics collection in Sumo Logic, use the [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).
```

> For metrics collection in Sumo Logic, use the [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For metrics collection in Sumo Logic, use the [GCP Metric source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).
```

> 1. Setup the [Google Service Account](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#google-service-account).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set up the [Google Service Account](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#google-service-account).
```

> 1. [Setup a GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#set-up-a-gcp-metrics-source) in Sumo Logic. While setting up the source select **Big Query** as the service from dropdown to get the Google cloud function metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set up a [GCP Metric source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#set-up-a-gcp-metrics-source) in Sumo Logic. While setting up the source, select **Big Query** as the service from dropdown to get the Google Cloud function metrics.
```

### Overview

> See an overview of queries, projects, and operations in Google BigQuery. Monitor query request location, project by billing and latency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See an overview of queries, projects, and operations in Google BigQuery. Monitor query request location, project by billing, and latency. 
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-Bigquery-Overview.png')} alt="Google BigQuery dashboards" />

### Management

See information about Google BigQuery operations, including an operations breakdown, dataset service and table service operations over time, operations and operations failures by project, location, and over time.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-Bigquery-mgmt.png')} alt="Google BigQuery dashboards" />

### Queries

> See information about queries in Google BigQuery, including billed GBs, latency, errors and query failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See information about queries in Google BigQuery, including billed GBs, latency, errors, and query failures.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-Bigquery-Users.png')} alt="Google BigQuery dashboards" />

> ### Query and Job Performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Query and job performance
```

 See information about query execution times, job throughput, and scanned bytes to monitor performance trends and optimize query efficiency.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-BigQuery-Query-and-Job-Performance.png')} alt="Google BigQuery dashboards" />

Reviewer: The dashboard image is broken. please replace it.

> ### Slots and Reservation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Slots and reservation
```

 See information about slot allocation, reservation usage, and capacity commitments to manage and optimize BigQuery resource utilization.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-BigQuery-Slots-and-Reservation.png')} alt="Google BigQuery dashboards" />

Reviewer: The dashboard image is broken. please replace it.

> ### Storage and Ingestion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Storage and ingestion
```

  See information about data storage, table counts, and ingestion metrics to track data volume, monitor upload performance, and control costs.

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-BigQuery-Storage-and-Ingestion.png')} alt="Google BigQuery dashboards" />

Reviewer: The dashboard image is broken. please replace it.

import AppUninstall from '../../reuse/apps/app-uninstall.md';

<AppUninstall/>

## Create monitors for Google BigQuery app

import CreateMonitors from '../../reuse/apps/create-monitors.md';

<CreateMonitors/>

> ### Google BigQuery Alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Google BigQuery alerts
```
